CABLE (CBM) is called from ccam in the sib4 routine which is included 
in cable_ccam.f90.  To call this subroutine set nsib=4 in the main namelist.

CABLE requires two input files. 
The first lists each grid point and it's vegetation type.  
There are two formats for this file: the original format
contained two vegetation types, of which the second (CASA) was used.  The
more recent format contains the IGBP vegetation type and the fraction of 
C4 plants for each gridpoint.  This fraction is determined by vegetation type
and latitude.  In order for the model to recognise this new format, the first
four characters of the header line are required to be 'IGBP'.  A copy of the
IGBP vegetation type file, vegtype_igbp.dat is included in the svn archive.
The filename for this file is set in the 'cableinput' namelist as 'vegtypefile'.
The c4 (non-zero) fractions for IGBP veg types were set as follows:
IGBP type 7, open shrub: c4=0.95 30S-30N
IGBP type 8, woody savanna: c4=0.5 30S-0, c4=0.8 0-20N, c4=0.5 20-30N
IGBP type 9, savanna: c4=0.75
IGBP type 10, grass: c4=0.5 30S-20S, c4=0.95 20S-20N, c4=0.5 20N-35N
IGBP type 12, crops: c4=0.3 0-40N
The fractions were chosen to approximately match the 1x1 c4 fraction map
from Chris Still (Still et al., GBC, 2003).

The second input file gives parameters for each vegetation type.  This filename
is also given in the 'cableinput' namelist as 'vegparmfile'.  It has two
possible formats, set by the cableinput namelist variable 'vegparmnew'.  True
gives the new format, false gives the old format, the default is true.
The old format had a number of header lines and then a row for each parameter type.
Each vegetation type was represented by a column.  This format was not easy to
read as the number of vegetation types (and hence row length) increased.
NB: The current version of the code has not been tested with the old format file
and CASA veg types.  It should still work.

The new format contains a single header line, followed by the number of 
vegetation types.  For each type (numerical order not required) 
a block of values is then given
! veg number, type and name
! canopy hgt(m),leaf angle,lf width(m),lf length(m)
! rholeaf-vis,nir,therm, rhowood-vis,nir,therm
! tauleaf-vis,nir,therm, tauwood-vis,nir,therm
! rhosoil-vis,nir,therm
! LAImax(m2/m2),WoodAI(m2/m2),canst1,shelrb,vegcf,extkn
! vcmax(mol/m2/s), rp20, rpcoeff(/oC), rs20
! tvjmin(oC), tvjmax(oC), vbeta, betaroot
! pool: leaf, wood, root, soilfast, soilslow (gC/m2)
! rate: leaf, wood, root, soilfast, soilslow (/year)
Not all parameters are currently used by the model.
Vegetation type is required to be one of 'forest', 'deciduous', 'shrub', 
'grass', 'crop', 'noveg', 'notused'.  Currently only 'deciduous' is 
used (to determine if a phenology modification is performed).  'deciduous'
types require tvjmin and tvjmax to be set, other types do not use these parameters.
An example new format parameter file, veg_parm_igbp.txt, is included in
the svn archive.  Note that it may not contain current preferred values 
(partcularly for vcmax, rp20 and vegcf).

The cableinput namelist also allows 'CO2forcingtype' and 'initcarbpools' to be
set.  CO2forcing type determines what atmospheric CO2 CABLE responds to.
CO2forcingtype=1 sets a constant CO2 of 360 ppm.
CO2forcingtype=2 sets the CO2 dependent on the year.  This will only work for
1900-2005.  The atmospheric CO2 values are those used for the C4MIP phase 1 
experiment, extended from 2000 to 2005.
CO3forcingtype=3 allows CABLE to see modelled atmospheric CO2.  This is 
currently set to a 'dummy' tracer expression and would most likely need to be 
modified to be a sum of modelled tracers (e.g. biosphere, ocean and fossil).
The default is CO2forcingtype=1.
The initcarbpools variable determines how carbon pools are initialised.
initcarbpools=1 sets the carbon pools to the sizes given in the veg parameter file.
Any other value (default=999) will read the carbon pools from the restart file.
A future option will be to read carbon pools from CASA-CNP determined values.
